---
title: Co-viewing and Timeline-anchored Discussion for Connectivity and Learning 
categories: [project archives]
comments: true
---

## Introduction

People like co-viewing videos for information, interaction, and entertainment. To support discussion during viewing online videos, many platforms provide functions of commenting anchored to video timelines. Though the <dfn info="弹幕 in Chinese">timeline-anchored commenting</dfn> is asynchronic, it can mimic a synchronic co-viewing experience. It has become popular in China. For example, a timeline-anchored video sharing platform [Bilibili](https://www.bilibili.com/) has attracted over 130 million active users. Many of them watch timeline-anchored videos for informational purposes or informal learning. Some Bilibili users even reposted lecture videos of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs, such as courses on Coursera) and attracted millions of viewing and thousands of comments (e.g., [a course about machine learning](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV164411b7dx?p=1)).  

Though timeline-anchored commenting may facilitate interaction, it may also bring visual clutters, information overwhelming, and mental workload. Timeline-anchored comments overlaid on videos are also usually transient and cannot be replyed. Therefore, it is hard to support in-depth discussions during learning.  

Therefore, I did a series of studies to design for timeline-anchored discussion and facilitating connectivity and cognitive learning, including the following research questions:

1. **Gratifications & motivations**: Why do people co-view videos with timeline-anchored discussion?
2. **Cognitive process**: How do people process information from videos and comments?
3. **Design**: How to support video viewing and interaction by timeline-anchored discussion?


## Gratifications & motivations

First, we conducted a survey study with 646 valid responses to recognize motivations to enroll in MOOCs and how these motivations affected interactions, presence, and learning outcomes. We figured out 1/3 of the participants were asocial learners, who tried to focus on learning materials rather than discussions. Their social presence could increase cognitive learning but decrease satisfaction. It suggested that discussions needed to be more accessible with the useful information highlighted.  

Publication: [Discuvering MOOC learner motivation and its moderating role](https://github.com/Lynncy/lynncy.github.io/tree/main/assets/docs/mooc-motivation.pdf)  


Then, by focus groups and a survey involving 248 valid responses, We clarified how the viewing of timeline-anchored videos was affected by gratifications, hindrances, and viewers’ individual differences. The factor analysis showed that people viewed these videos mainly to obtain entertainment, information, and social connectivity. The hierarchical regressions showed that more introverted younger people with higher openness to new experience are more likely to view more. Polychronicity did not predict attitude or behaviors significantly.

Publication: [Understanding gratifications of watching Danmaku videos - videos with overlaid comments](https://github.com/Lynncy/lynncy.github.io/tree/main/assets/docs/danmaku-interview.pdf)  

[Watching a movie alone yet together: understanding reasons for watching Danamku videos](https://github.com/Lynncy/lynncy.github.io/tree/main/assets/docs/danmaku-questionnaire.pdf) 



## Cognitive process

Timeline-anchored comments, as user-generated knowledge, facilitate social interaction but also affect cognitive learning. The visual layout of these comments can affect learners’ attention and learning, but the effect has been rarely studied. Therefore, we compares two common layouts (embedded vs. separated) considering the content depth of comments through a laboratory eye-tracking experiment involving 40 participants. The results suggest that, with both the layouts, learners switched attention to the comments every 10 seconds but stayed for 1.3 seconds averagely before backing to the video. With an embedded layout, learners switched more frequently to the comments and remembered more surface-level comments. With a separate layout presenting deep-level comments, learners searched for information faster and performed better on open-book quizzes. We outline the design implications of using timeline-anchored comments to promote online learning. (under revision)



## Design

（3）采用以用户为中心的方法，结合数据挖掘等手段，设计、开发、评估视频讨论的界面。最后，我还会汇报在这些研究的基础上，正在开展的关于虚拟环境学习与讨论的工作与展望。


This study consists of three stages. In the first stage, this study figured out motivations to enroll in MOOCs and how these motivations affected interactions, presence, and learning outcomes by a survey involving 646 valid responses. Then, by focus groups and a survey involving 248 valid responses, this study clarified how Danmaku video viewing was affected by gratifications, hindrances, and viewers’ individual differences. In the second stage, the study designed and evaluated a tool to facilitate video timeline-anchored discussions named DanMOOC by the user-centered approach. It showed comments and threads both embedded in the video and listed aside. It was evaluated by an experiment involving 28 participants. The study also explored how learning was affected by the layout and the content of timeline-anchored discussions by an experiment with 40 participants. In the third stage, the study designed a visualization tool by analyzing and presenting discussion data. It showed the perceived difficulty, the relevance of discussions with the course content, and the topics of discussions in the lecture video interface. It was evaluated by an experiment with 24 participants.  

This study showed the following results. First, motivations to enroll in MOOCs significantly affected interactions, presence, and learning outcomes. Most learners reported low motivation levels or avoidance of social interactions during learning. The asocial learners tried to focus on learning materials rather than discussions. Their social presence could increase cognitive learning but decrease satisfaction. Therefore, this study tried to make discussions more accessible with the useful information highlighted. Danmaku commenting could satisfy the needs of information and entertainment, social connectedness, and self-expression. These merits potentially helped learning. However, when the comments increased, viewers may feel distracted. Second, the experiment showed that with DanMOOC, participants engaged more in discussions and had higher presence and satisfaction. With the embedded layout, learners switched more frequently between the discussion and the lecture video. They recalled more task-oriented discussions involving surface cognitive processing. The separate layout helped information retrieval when presenting deep processing discussions. Third, the visualization tool could help information retrieval and summarization, increase social presence, and improve learning outcomes.  

This study highlighted the effect of motivation to learn MOOCs on both the learning process and outcomes. It showed how timeline-anchored discussions helped passive socialization, active participation in discussions, and information retrieval and integration in MOOC learning. It explored how learning was improved by the visualization of discussion data. It also provided valuable information for the design of video discussion and annotation tools.




Watching videos is a major approach to learn MOOCs. To support discussion during lecture videos, we iteratively designed DanMOOC, a MOOC video system where viewers can post comments or threads on the video timeline. During designing, we evaluated prototypes by interviewing teachers, TAs, and students (see [pdf]). The final design was evaluated by a laboratory experiment with 28 participants. In this experiment, we compared DanMOOC with the currently common system (lecture videos + a separate forum). The results showed that DanMOOC engaged learners more in discussions, increased social, teaching, and cognitive presence perceived by learners, and improved learners’ satisfaction toward both the course and the platform (see [pdf]). 


Videos with timeline-anchored comments usually involve a large number of comments. To prevent learners from information overload, we designed a timeline tool to help retrieve information and reduce workload. We visualized (1) the level of difficulty and the relevance of comments to the lecture along with the video timeline, and (2) the topics and keywords extracted from comments along with the video timeline. We conducted a within-group experiment with 24 students to compare video learning systems with/without this visualization tool (both systems showed timeline-anchored comments). The results indicated that the visualization tool increased learners’ performance in open-book quizzes, search tasks, and summarization tasks. With this tool, learners also perceived higher social presence. Twenty-two of the 24 students preferred the system with the visualization tool. [working paper, draft available upon request] 


2018 International Brain Inspired Computing Competition for University Students, Third Prize 
We gathered learners’ face expression during watching lecture videos and discussion comments anchored to the video timeline. Based on these data, we identified and visualized learners’ perceived difficulty and their interest level along with the video timeline by a fused model of CNN (for face expression) and LSTM (for comments). 





This is a sample post.<br>
<dfn info="You can add extra information">Hover</dfn> me.

## Header

# Head 1: '#'
## Head 2: '##'
### Head 3: '###'

## Code block
A Python Example:

```python
def quote():
    # Socrates
    print('The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.')
    
```
A HTML Example:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>quote</title>
</head>
<body>
    <!-- Maya Angelou -->
    <p>Try to be a rainbow in someone's cloud.</p>
</body>
</html>
```


A C Example:

```c
#include <stdio.h>
int main()
{
    // Confucius
    printf("Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.\n");
    return 0;
}
```